[Music]
America I know what you're thinking do
we really need a recipe for baked
potatoes well here in the Test Kitchen
we baked over 200 pounds of spuds to
discover that very answer and today I'm
here with the expert Ellie who's gonna
show us why we do need a recipe
Bridgette some crazy things are
happening in the world with baked
potatoes and it has to stop
Oh No immediately first we're cooking
our potatoes in the microwave not good
I've done it not gonna I've done it's
right and it cooks unevenly it cooks
from the inside out we also cook our
potatoes in foil I've done that too and
it traps in all of the moisture and it
doesn't give us a tasty potato and
finally when we do get it in the oven to
bake it we let it hang out on the
counter forever and there's no
fluffiness coming out of that potato at
all but their greatest doorstops
absolutely today we're gonna do my
favorite thing one of the things we love
to do in the Test Kitchen we're gonna
brine potatoes
we're gonna brine potatoes yes you said
Brian potatoes okay now I remember when
we started brining beans a few years ago
and I was a little skeptical about that
really works though changes their
structure and how they hold on to
moisture much like meat but no we're
brining potatoes yes because not only do
we want a delicious potato we want the
skin to be crispy and flavorful I like
to eat my whole potato I don't know
about you that's true that's true yeah
okay so let's start brining the first
thing we're gonna do is poke about six
holes in these potatoes but just do two
on every side and this is how we get it
ready for the brine flavor is gonna seep
in seems gonna seep out that's a lot of
things are gonna happen and russets our
perfect choice for baked potatoes
because they're one of the highest
starch content of all the potatoes and
higher the starch means fluffier
potatoes all right now that we have our
potatoes ready we're going to create our
brine so we have half a cup of water
here and we have two tablespoons of salt
we're also brining potatoes because it's
very hard to season a potato just
normally the salt will roll right off if
we put it in water it sticks to the
potato so I'm gonna transfer these
potatoes to a wire rack the wire rack
will allow the potatoes are cooked
evenly from bottom on all sides and the
top and also it's just easier to get it
from the oven
we tested brining these potatoes for up
to an hour
and we found that just a few seconds in
the Brian works so it's more about the
skin than going inside the potato yes
gotcha all right so now that we have our
potatoes barn we're gonna put them in
the oven at 450 degrees it's very
important that we let them cook until
they register 205 degrees internal
temperature and that should take from 45
minutes to an hour I love this this is
so Test Kitchen we're actually looking
for an internal temperature of potatoes
now first we brine them now we temp them
Bridget it's been 45 minutes and our
potatoes are ready to cool they actually
look a little frosty it's like the salt
dried on them you can actually see the
salt crust yeah that's gonna be
delicious later so we're going to temp
our potatoes remember we're looking for
an internal temperature of 205 temping
the potato does two things first it lets
us know that the potato is obviously
done second pushing the thermometer in
gives you a feel of the resistance if it
slides right in you know it's ready to
go
so we're at temp and we're going to
brush these potatoes with the tablespoon
of vegetable oil this is what's going to
give us that nice crispy skin in the end
we also found out that if we brushed the
potatoes with oil prematurely
we got leathery skin because if it was
put on too soon the oil would have
trapped that moisture in absolutely so
it would have been kind of chewy on the
inside and leathery on that out just
like another potato mistake
one thing you don't want to do you know
I'm usually a butter advocate you don't
want to brush the baked potatoes with
butter butter contains moisture water in
fact and that water will actually saw
out the crust you may however if you
have someone hand brush it with a little
rendered bacon fat or a goose fat or
duck fat or any of those fats so our
oven is still at 450 degrees we're gonna
put these back in for 10 minutes just to
give it that flash cooking that's gonna
give us our crispy skin our potatoes
only have a few more minutes in the oven
let's throw together a quick topping to
put on there fantastic all right so we
have four ounces of goat cheese that I'm
gonna smash up here we're gonna put in
two tablespoons of extra-virgin olive
oil two tablespoons of parsley
1 tablespoon of shallots and a half a
teaspoon of lemon zest this is my
favorite part you know I never would
have thought of lemon zest on a baked
potato but it makes sense because
roasted potatoes you add lemon zest to
it why not a baked potato
why not baked potatoes lemon zest asked
the little Zing's at everything
finally we're just gonna season to taste
with a little bit of salt and pepper
it's very flavorful if it doesn't need a
lot sometimes goat cheese is super salty
and sometimes it's not very seasoned at
all so that's a really good idea mm-hmm
and here's the taste part just make sure
it's good to go lovely season to ELLs
taste so that's it that's it yeah I do
you more yeah it's pretty too okay I'm
gonna go grab these potatoes out of the
other oh look how crisp those skins look
very different from when they went in
yeah all right so we're gonna tend to
these potatoes immediately we are not
going to squeeze them to tell if they're
ready because we temp them at 205
degrees and people think if they leave
them here on the counter these poked
holes will let all the steam escape
those are all false statements you must
attend them immediately cutting them
open letting that steam out and getting
your beautiful potato when you cut that
open it sounds like a potato chip you
need it because it was crispy I was just
cutting an X across the top come on
Oh give it a little squeeze you feel the
steam coming out can you imagine if that
steam had stayed inside the potato has
nowhere to escape just gets super dense
without fluffy you can smell them we got
crispy we've got flavor yeah we got
topping we've got snacks
yeah Lizzy they are gorgeous fluffy
fluffy and I Noel loves me because she
just shoved butter inside that baked
potato all right will you do the honors
of the goat cheese I sure will hot hot
Oh what does that remind mam
that texture I mean it's almost whipped
it's so light and airy and it's actually
soft all the way to the middle that's
impressive
I want to tear a little bit of the skin
here I got a try a piece really really
crisp very seasoned - that was that
brine who would have thought what are we
gonna brine next two plates maybe well
thank you so much you totally owned fake
potatoes today it was my pleasure
well 200 pounds of spuds later we know
the way to foolproof baked potatoes hook
a few holes in your high starch and
russet potatoes and dip them in salt
water before baking to season the skin
bake them to 205 degrees and oil the
skins and return them to the oven until
super crisp finally cut the potatoes
open as soon as they're out of the oven
to let excess steam escape and there you
have it from our Test Kitchen to your
kitchen proof that this old dog can
learn a new trick or two the very best
baked potatoes thanks for watching
America's Test Kitchen what you think
we'll leave a comment and let us know
which recipes you're excited to make or
you can just say hello you can find
links to today's recipes and reviews in
the video description and don't forget
to subscribe to our Channel see you
later
I'll see you later